MCWP 50
Elizabeth Miller

Zack Garza
6/7/2018

# Portfolio Reflection

*3 pages, ~750 words*

Over the course of this quarter, I feel that I have indeed grown and developed as a critical reader and writer. Whereas I may have previously accepted many claims that were laid out, it has been especially useful to focus on what the underlying warrants are. I have found that many of the writers I have read do tend to have unstated assumptions of this form, and upon further examination, it became clear that for those assumptions to hold, they would have needed to give a further, separate argument supporting it. Thinking of things in this way has made critically analyzing arguments and finding spots where they should be strengthened a much easier process, and has provided me a good set of tool for critically reading going forward. This has also influenced my writing style, as I now question my own arguments with the same critical eye, and this has helped me not only expound on my arguments and form them more fully, but to also similarly find the weakest links and buttress them with further evidence, support, and in some cases, entirely new analyses.

In the various course readings, there was a common thread of visual analysis in the first few pieces. The first took a very literal tact, by examining actual iconography and symbolism within the pieces of art it examined. The second, however, was slightly different in that many of the visual aspects had corresponding metaphoric or allegoric meanings that tied into the spatial and temporal context within which the analysis was carried out. Both emphasized the importance of surroundings, however, since such a context richly influenced the actual analysis and could even supply extra meaning to the work itself. In the first case, it was very interesting to explore how the murals were created among many different art styles, all of which seemed to influence the central piece in a variety of ways. In the second reading, it was interesting to see how the colonialist attitudes were intimately reflected in how the travelers wrote about the natives and which aspects of these cultures they chose to highlight or leave out.

Over the course of the quarter, I believe my research process did change slightly - at first, I took a great deal of notes on the actual texts, and early drafts of my paper were more summarization than synthesis. After an early meeting, I began to see that a good deal of the true value in the research paper would come from the unique perspective I could contribute, and from my own analysis of how these various arguments interacted as well as which ones were particularly compelling or lacking. This led me to change my approach about halfway through, where I started by hopefully providing enough context to discuss these ideas, but also tried to add in more of my own acknowledgement and response to these arguments. Not only did this change the actual content of my writing, but it also changed how I approach the organization of my materials beforehand. Since I have become able to think about possible counterarguments in advance, it has been easier to extract better information from texts in anticipation of addressing an issue from multiple sides.

I would hope that my best piece of writing in this class would be the research project, since it is essentially the culmination of all of the techniques I have learned so far. It is far from ideal, I think, mostly because my approach to the topic changed over the course of the paper, and it could certainly use a rewrite which takes into account the new approaches and thoughts I brought in around halfway through. I enjoyed the topic of the project itself, though, and so I was able to enthusiastically research it and find a great deal of material around it. However, I do think it st