To whom it may concern,

In this document, I’d like to share with you a bit about my personal background and history, as well as lend some additional context for various other parts of my application.

I’d first like to give a quick overview of my academic career thus far, which is perhaps a bit unconventional. I did not begin my undergraduate degree immediately after high school - instead, due to my family’s financial situation, I chose to work full-time for several years. I began taking courses part-time at a local junior college when I was around 22, where I initially intended to major in Computer Science. I continued to support myself while slowly completing courses required to transfer to a 4-year university, which included standard sequences in chemistry, physics, and mathematics. As I progressed through these courses, I found myself drawn much more to the theory behind many of the computational equations that were used than I was to programming. 



I joined the college’s mathematics club after taking single-variable Calculus, which was my first exposure to learning mathematics outside of the standard curriculum by way of invited faculty talks and conversations with other students. By my last year, we had organized enough support between the department and faculty to offer an otherwise defunct proof-based discrete mathematics course, which I took along with a combined course in linear algebra and differential equations. These were my first exposures to higher mathematics, which I found immensely enjoyable, and I subsequently became intensely interested and began a great deal of self-study outside of class - for example, I vividly remember learning one day during linear algebra that vector spaces could be infinite dimensional and subsequently spending the following weeks buried in books and PDFs in an attempt to understand what a Hilbert space was. During the same semester, I gave my first mathematical talk in our discrete mathematics course, in which I described the combinatorial structure of trees and the problem of counting non-isomorphic trees on a given number of vertices.

Because of these experiences, I wound up obtaining A.S. degrees in Physics and Mathematics instead of Computer Science, but did not immediately apply to transfer to a university. I instead took a gap year, moved to the Berkeley to work as a software programmer, and began to prepare transfer applications for Mathematics programs. Since I lived near the UC Berkeley campus, I enrolled part-time via a concurrent enrollment program they offered, and took a course in discrete mathematics for computer science, as well as course in signal processing, both offered through the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department. I also sat in on a number of mathematics courses, including abstract algebra and Fourier analysis.

I then applied and transferred to the University of California, San Diego under a combined Math/Computer Science major and began my upper division courses in Fall 2015, when I was about 27. It was at this point that I began to consider the idea of a graduate degree, so I immediately enrolled in the department’s rigorous core sequences in algebra and real analysis, while simultaneously taking other courses at the intersection of computer science and mathematics such as Combinatorics and Probability. I also began sitting in on faculty seminars in the Mathematics department, which is where I was first exposed to Topology and driven to take subsequent courses in point-set topology and knot theory. 

However, it is perhaps worth noting here that while I was free to focus all of my time on courses in Fall 2015, I obtained my current job as a data scientist in January 2016, where I worked part-time for 15 hours per week for the remainder of the academic year. Starting Summer 2016, I began working approximately 30 hours per week in order to offset and minimize the amount of student loans necessary to cover my cost of living in San Diego. This is perhaps reflected in my transcript - although I did well in courses during my first 2-3 quarters (Fall 2015 and Winter/Spring 2016), my performance in later courses was impacted at times due to this time commitment. 

By the beginning of my second academic year, I had realized that I much preferred my Mathematics courses to my Computer Science courses, and began contemplating switching to a Mathematics major. I planned to take a wide variety of graduate Math courses, but quickly found that splitting my time between Computer Science courses, Math courses, and part-time work proved to be too difficult to maintain. This led to me withdrawing from several courses and doing quite poorly in others. 



It was during this year that I also began getting seriously involved in the Mathematics club, which had unfortunately dissolved when many of its members simultaneously graduated. Because there were no events or activities for students, I began independently organizing a regular student talks and colloquia. I researched gave a number of these talks myself, on topics such as category theory, algebraic geometry, and homological algebra. I also went on to host a number of workshops to teach students and faculty how to use LaTeX. I also organized a number of meetings to reinstate the Mathematics club, and then began working with the interested students and by early 2017, I became the president of the organization, a position which I held for the remainder of my degree. 

Through the Math club, I continued to give talks and run workshops, as well as events for undergraduate students such as social events and screening Math-related movies. I worked to reinstate an annual “Integration Bee”, create and distribute graduation stoles for Math majors, run fundraisers. and build and lead a team of over 10 officers, who have themselves grown and gone on to move into leadership roles to keep the club alive and well.

Since I was still split between Math and Computer Science in early 2017, I continued one graduate course in Functional Analysis and took more theoretical Computer Science courses in algorithms, computability, machine learning and computer vision. By the end of that academic year, however, based on my experience with the Math club and my prior Topology courses I had taken my first year, as well as continuing to sit in on faculty seminars and graduate courses in algebraic geometry, modular forms, and complex analysis, I finally came to the conclusion that I truly enjoyed Mathematics enough to devote myself to it full-time and pursue a graduate degree in it.

I then changed my major to Pure Mathematics, taking a third year to finish my major requirements and a single graduate course: the department’s qualifying exam course in Algebraic Topology.