# Monday March 16th 2020



## Non-split Extensions

[Reference](http://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1082283/example-of-a-non-splitting-exact-sequence-0-%E2%86%92-m-%E2%86%92-m-oplus-n-%E2%86%92-n-%E2%86%92-0/1082313#1082313) Not every sequence of the form $0\to A \to A \oplus C \to C \to 0$ splits; take
$$
0 \to \ZZ \to \ZZ \oplus \bigoplus_\NN \ZZ/(2) \to \bigoplus_\NN \ZZ/(2) \to 0
$$
where the first map is multiplication by 2, the second is the quotient map and a right-shift. This can't split because $(1, 0, \cdots)$ has order 2 in the RHS but pulls back to 



## Cogroups

Reference: [One of Qiaochu Yuan's Blog Posts](https://qchu.wordpress.com/2011/01/21/structures-on-hom-sets/)

Cogroup objects: have structure maps
$$
m: H \to H^2 \\
e: H \to 0 \\
i: H \to H
$$
where $0$ is an initial object.

Example: $S^n \in \mathrm{hoTop}$.
Importance: What structure does $H$ need to have such that $\hom(H,\wait)$ has a group structure when applied? The answer is that $H$ is a group object in $\mathcal{C}\op$, or equivalently that $H$ is a cogroup object in $\mathcal{C}$.

The forgetful functor $U: \Set\to\Grp$ is representable by $\hom_{\Grp}(\ZZ, \wait)$, and the coproduct in $\Grp$ is the free product.

Recall that $\mathrm{CommRing}\op \cong \mathrm{AffSch}$, the category of affine schemes.

The adjoint to the forgetful functor $\mathrm{CommRing} \to \Set$ is the free commutative ring on $X$, i.e. $\ZZ[X]$, and is thus representable. The forgetful functor $\mathrm{CommRing} \to \Ab$ given by sending a ring to its underlying abelian group is also representable, namely by $\hom_{\Ring}(\ZZ[x], \wait)$. The coproduct in $\Ring$ is the tensor product over $\ZZ$, and the initial object is $\ZZ$.

$\ZZ[x]$ with its cogroup structure defines the structure of an affine group scheme on $\spec \ZZ[x]$, which represents the "additive group" functor and is called the additive group scheme $\GG_a$. Dualizing, an affine group scheme in the category $\mathrm{CommRing}$ is precisely a Hopf algebra.

Similarly, the forgetful functor $\mathrm{CommRing} \to \Ab$ given by sending $R$ to $R\units$ is representable by $\hom_{\Ring}(\ZZ[x, x\inv], \wait)$, and the corresponding affine group scheme $\spec \ZZ[x, \xinv]$ is the multiplicative group scheme $\GG_m$.

Note: the functor $\AffSch \to \Set$ sending a ring to its set of prime ideals is not representable (and doesn't preserve products), but the functor $\hom_{\AffSch}(\spec k, \wait)$ sending a scheme to its $k\dash$points for any $k$ is representable (and preserves all limits).



